= JBoss Central and the JBoss Perspective

= Overview of JBoss Central and the JBoss Perspective

== About JBoss Central

JBoss Central is a core IDE tab, providing access to JBoss information
and assistance in one centralized location. It offers features for first
time users of JBoss Tools, as well as those with more experience.

The JBoss Central tab comprises resources and actions for creating new
projects, learning about the tools and installing software updates:

* Project wizards create new projects based on sample applications and
different technologies.
* The TicketMonster tutorial, part of JBoss Java Developer Framework,
demonstrates how to use the IDE to best advantage in developing a
complex web application that utilizes JBoss technologies.
* Links to JBoss blog posts give timely insight into JBoss developments
and the links to JBoss resources, such as documentation and forums,
provide easy access to key information sources.
* Software installation and update information assist in the easy
management of IDE plug-ins.

== About the JBoss Perspective

JBoss is a key IDE perspective, giving easy access to useful tabs and
actions when developing applications with JBoss technologies. The
perspective consists of a default set of tabs, menus and toolbars.

Tabs::
  The default tabs of the JBoss perspective are OpenShift Explorer,
  Outline, Package Explorer, Palette, Problems, Project Explorer,
  Properties, and Servers. These tabs are vital when developing with
  JBoss technologies.
Menus::
  The default menus of the JBoss perspective are File, Edit, Navigate,
  Search, Project, Run, Window, Help. These are shared with other
  perspectives but contain unique menu items for actions such as
  starting project wizards, converting line delimiters, showing items in
  JBoss perspective tabs, generating Javadoc, building packages,
  accessing JBoss Central and cheat sheets, and reporting problems with
  tools.
Toolbars::
  The default toolbars that compose the global toolbar of the JBoss
  perspective are BrowserSim, Debug, File, Help, Java EE, Java Element
  Creation, JBoss Tools WTP Server Actions, JPA Element Creation,
  Launch, Navigate, Search, Select Maven Profiles, and Web Browser. The
  global toolbar provides access to frequently used actions.

= Features of JBoss Central and the JBoss Perspective

== Features Overview

The aim of this section is to guide you in using JBoss Central and the
JBoss perspective:

* View JBoss Central to access project wizards and information resources
* Install and update software with JBoss Central
* Open the JBoss perspective for easy access to key tabs, menus and
toolbars
* Access cheat sheets that assist in project development

== View JBoss Central

The JBoss Central tab provides resources for getting started and
updating software.

To open the JBoss Central tab, click the JBoss Central icon
image:images/3989.png[image]. Alternatively, click Help→JBoss Central.

To maximize the JBoss Central tab, double-click the name of the JBoss
Central tab. The JBoss Central tab fills the whole IDE window.
Double-click the name of the JBoss Central tab to reduce the size of the
tab again. These actions work for all IDE tabs.

== Access Project Wizards in JBoss Central

JBoss Central provides access to wizards for generating projects. There
are two types of project wizards available in JBoss Central:

* The Start from scratch wizards create the same project using different
underlying technology, as started in the project name. To view a project
summary, hover the cursor over a project wizard. If you do not have the
necessary plug-in installed to use a wizard, you will be prompted to
install it when you select the wizard.
+
image:images/3963.png[ The Start from scratch wizards create the same
project using different underlying technology, as started in the project
name. To view a project summary, hover the cursor over a project wizard.
]
* The Start from a sample wizards create sample web, mobile, back-end
and portal applications. To view a project summary, hover the cursor
over a project wizard.
+
image:images/3965.png[ The Start from a sample wizards create sample
web, mobile, back-end and portal applications. To view a project
summary, hover the cursor over a project wizard. ]

To create a project from one of the wizards, in the JBoss Central tab
select the Getting Started page. Click on one of the links below Start
from scratch or Start from a sample. Alternatively, click File→New and
select a project from the list. A wizard opens to guide you through the
process of creating the project.

Additionally, access is provided to the comprehensive TicketMonster
tutorial, part of JBoss Developer Framework, that guides you through
developing a complex web application utilizing JBoss technologies from
within the IDE. To view the tutorial, in the JBoss Central tab select
the Getting Started page and click the Open the Ticket Monster tutorial
button. The JBoss Developer Framework website will open in the default
browser of the IDE.

image:images/3958.png[ Access is provided to the comprehensive
TicketMonster tutorial, part of JBoss Developer Framework, that guides
you through developing a complex web application utilizing JBoss
technologies from within the IDE. To view the tutorial, in the JBoss
Central tab select the Getting Started page and click the Open the
Ticket Monster tutorial button. ]

== Access Information in JBoss Central

JBoss Central provides easy access to JBoss and developer information.
Each of the information sources listed below are web-based and,
depending on the web browser preferences you have set for the IDE,
clicking on links results in an internal or external browser window
opening.

View JBoss Tools website::
  In the JBoss Central tab, click the JBoss Tools Home icon
  image:images/3975.png[image].
View the latest JBoss developments::
  In the JBoss Central tab, select the Getting Started page and click
  the links under JBoss Buzz. To see previews of the blog posts, hover
  the cursor over these links. To view a complete list of JBoss blog
  posts, click the JBoss Buzz button. JBoss blog posts are available to
  follow as RSS feeds or with Twitter. To review these options, click
  the News or Twitter icons.
  +
  image:images/4228.png[ In the JBoss Central tab, select the Getting
  Started page and click the links under JBoss Buzz. To see previews of
  the blog posts, hover the cursor over these links. To view a complete
  list of JBoss blog posts, click the JBoss Buzz button. ]
View JBoss developer information sources::
  In the JBoss Central tab, select the Getting Started page and click
  the links under Other resources. These links provide access to videos,
  documentation and forums.
  +
  image:images/3966.png[ In the JBoss Central tab, select the Getting
  Started page and click the links under Other resources. ]
Search JBoss Community website::
  In the JBoss Central tab, click the arrow next to the search box and
  select Search JBoss Community. In the search field, enter the search
  terms.
  +
  image:images/3961.png[ In the JBoss Central tab, click the arrow next
  to the search box and select Search JBoss Community. In the search
  field, enter the search terms. ]

== Install Software in JBoss Central

JBoss Central enables you to install and update a range of IDE plug-ins.
The available plug-ins comprise JBoss and third-party plug-ins that have
been specifically tested for use with the IDE. These plug-ins include
ones for web and mobile development, source control management, testing
and Maven.

For all actions listed below, open the JBoss Central tab and select the
Software/Update page.

View available software::
  The available software is listed in the table. To refresh the list of
  available plug-ins, click the Refresh icon
  image:images/3969.png[image].
View installed plug-ins::
  Select the Show Installed check box. The installed plug-ins are listed
  in the table as disabled.
  +
  image:images/3980.png[ To view installed plug-ins, select the Show
  Installed check box. The installed plug-ins are listed in the table as
  disabled. ]
Install available software::
  In the Find field, type the name of the software or scroll through the
  list to locate it. Select the check box corresponding to the software
  you want to install and click Install or click the Install icon
  image:images/3979.png[image].
  +
  image:images/3985.png[ In the Find field, type the name of the
  software or scroll through the list to locate it. Select the check box
  corresponding to the software you want to install and click Install or
  click the Install icon. ]
  +
  In the Install wizard, ensure the check boxes are selected for the
  software you want to install and click Next.
  +
  image:images/3984.png[ In the Install wizard, ensure the check boxes
  are selected for the software you want to install and click Next. ]
  +
  Review the details of the items listed for install and click Next.
  After reading and agreeing to the license(s), click I accept the terms
  of the license agreement(s) and click Finish. The Installing Software
  window opens and reports the progress of the installation.
  +
  During the installation process you may receive warnings about
  installing unsigned content. If this is the case, check the details of
  the content and if satisfied click OK to continue with the
  installation.
  +
  image:images/3981.png[ During the installation process you may receive
  warnings about installing unsigned content. If this is the case, check
  the details of the content and if satisfied click OK to continue with
  the installation. ]
  +
  Once installing is complete, you are prompted to restart the IDE.
  Click Yes to restart now and No if you need to save any unsaved
  changes to open projects. Note that changes do not take effect until
  the IDE is restarted.
Check for software updates::
  Click the Check for Updates icon image:images/3957.png[image]. The
  Contacting Software Sites window opens and reports the progress of
  checking. Once checking is complete, a prompt informs you of any new
  software found. Click OK to close the prompt.
  +
  image:images/3974.png[ The Contacting Software Sites window opens and
  reports the progress of checking. Once checking is complete, a prompt
  informs you of any new software found. Click OK to close the prompt. ]

== Open the JBoss Perspective

The JBoss perspective provides a default set of tabs, menus and toolbars
to assist with common tasks associated with developing applications that
use JBoss technologies.

To open the JBoss perspective, click Window→Open Perspective→Other. From
the list of available perspectives, select JBoss and click OK. The tabs
associated with the JBoss perspective open and menus and toolbars change
as appropriate.

image:images/3973.png[ To open the JBoss perspective, click Window→Open
Perspective→Other. From the list of available perspectives, select JBoss
and click OK. ]

== Manage JBoss Perspective

There are a number of actions provided by the IDE for managing
perspectives, including the JBoss perspective.

Reset the JBoss perspective::
  You may want to reset the JBoss perspective to its default settings
  after opening and closing tabs. Click Window→Reset Perspective. At the
  prompt asking if you want to reset the current JBoss perspective to
  its default settings, click Yes.
Switch to the JBoss perspective::
  You can have multiple perspectives open at one time. To switch to the
  JBoss perspective, click the JBoss icon image:images/3976.png[image].
  Alternatively, click Window→Navigation→Next Perspective or press
  Ctrl+F8 and repeat until the JBoss perspective is the current
  perspective.
Close the JBoss perspective::
  Click Window→Close Perspective.

== View Cheat Sheets

Typically, cheat sheets contain detailed information about projects,
with step by step guidance and explanations for how to create and deploy
applications. JBoss Central and the JBoss perspective provide actions to
make the cheat sheets that accompany projects easier to access and view.

A cheat sheet contained in a project is automatically opened in the
Cheat Sheets tab when the project is imported into the workspace with
File→Import.

image:images/3988.png[ A cheat sheet contained in a project is
automatically opened in the Cheat Sheets tab when the project is
imported into the workspace with File→Import. ]

To open a cheat sheet manually, in the Project Explorer tab right-click
the project name or a cheat sheet file and click Open In Cheat Sheets
View.

image:images/3960.png[ To open a cheat sheet manually, in the Project
Explorer tab right-click the project name or a cheat sheet file and
click Open In Cheat Sheets View. ]

Alternatively, click Help→Cheat Sheets, click Select a cheat sheet from
a file and type the location of the file in the field or click Browse to
navigate to the file. Click OK to close the window. The cheat sheet
opens in the Cheat Sheets tab.

___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Note*

If the cheat sheet file name begins with dot, it may not be
automatically visible in the Project Explorer tab. To change the viewing
preferences of the Project Explorer tab, click the View Menu icon and
click Customize View. In the Filters tab, clear the .* resources check
box and click OK.
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

= Customizing JBoss Central and the JBoss Perspective

== Customizing Overview

The aim of this section is to guide you in customizing JBoss Central and
the JBoss perspective:

* Make JBoss Central visible when the IDE starts
* Customize the menu and toolbar items of the JBoss perspective
* Enable project examples for use when you are offline
* Specify the default IDE behavior for cheat sheets

== Change the Behavior of JBoss Central on IDE Start

JBoss Central is set by default to show when the IDE starts but you can
customize this behavior.

To change the behavior, in the JBoss Central tab select or clear the
Show on Startup check box as appropriate.

image:images/3959.png[ JBoss Central is set by default to show when the
IDE starts but you can customize this behavior. To change the behavior,
in the JBoss Central tab select or clear the Show on Startup check box
as appropriate. ]

Alternatively, in the JBoss Central tab click the Preferences icon
image:images/3971.png[image] or click Window→Preferences. In both cases,
expand JBoss Tools and select JBoss Central. Select or clear the Show
JBoss Central on Startup check box as appropriate. Click Apply and click
OK to close the Preferences window.

image:images/3970.png[ In the JBoss Central tab click the Preferences
icon or click Window→Preferences. In both cases, expand JBoss Tools and
select JBoss Central. Select or clear the Show JBoss Central on Startup
check box as appropriate. Click Apply and click OK to close the
Preferences window. ]

== Customize the Default Tabs, Menus and Toolbars of the JBoss
Perspective

You can customize the menus and toolbars displayed by the JBoss
perspective, as with any perspective.

To customize the JBoss perspective, ensure it is the current perspective
and click Window→Customize Perspective. In the Tool Bar Visibility tab,
select or clear the check boxes corresponding to the individual toolbars
and icons visible in the global toolbar of the JBoss perspective as
appropriate. In the Menu Visibility tab, select or clear the check boxes
corresponding to the menus and menu items visible in the JBoss
perspective as appropriate. Disabled items in the Tool Bar Visibility or
Menu Visibility tab can be activated in the Command Groups Availability
tab. Click OK to close the window.

image:images/3986.png[ To customize the JBoss perspective, ensure it is
the current perspective and click Window→Customize Perspective. In the
Tool Bar Visibility tab, select or clear the check boxes corresponding
to the individual toolbars and icons visible in the global toolbar of
the JBoss perspective as appropriate. Click OK to close the window. ]

image:images/3987.png[ To customize the JBoss perspective, ensure it is
the current perspective and click Window→Customize Perspective. In the
Menu Visibility tab, select or clear the check boxes corresponding to
the menus and menu items visible in the JBoss perspective as
appropriate. Click OK to close the window. ]

You can reorder the individual toolbars comprising the global toolbar in
the JBoss perspective. To reorder, click the vertical line indicating
the beginning of a toolbar and drag the toolbar to its new location in
the global toolbar.

image:images/3968.png[ You can reorder the individual toolbars
comprising the global toolbar in the JBoss perspective. To reorder,
click the vertical line indicating the beginning of a toolbar and drag
the toolbar to its new location in the global toolbar. ]

Additionally, you can customize which tabs are part of the JBoss
perspective. To customize the tabs, ensure the JBoss perspective is the
current perspective. Open or close tabs as desired and click Window→Save
Perspective As. From the Existing Perspectives list, select JBoss and
click OK. At the prompt asking if you want to overwrite the existing
JBoss perspective, click Yes.

image:images/3964.png[ you can customize which tabs are part of the
JBoss perspective. To customize the tabs, ensure the JBoss perspective
is the current perspective. Open or close tabs as desired and click
Window→Save Perspective As. From the Existing Perspectives list, select
JBoss and click OK. ]

To revert all customization of the JBoss perspective, ensure it is the
current perspective and click Window→Reset Perspective. At the prompt
asking if you want to reset the JBoss perspective to its saved state,
select the Also discard perspective's customization check box and click
Yes.

image:images/3967.png[ To revert all customization of the JBoss
perspective, ensure it is the current perspective and click Window→Reset
Perspective. At the prompt asking if you want to reset the JBoss
perspective to its saved state, select the Also discard perspective's
customization check box and click Yes. ]

== Use Project Examples when Working Offline

When a project wizard in JBoss Central is used, the IDE searches online
repositories for the most recent versions of project dependencies. JBoss
Central provides a feature that enables you to create a cache of the
necessary project dependencies when you are online so that you can still
use the project wizards offline. As detailed below, this is achieved by
first creating the cache and then informing the IDE to use that cache.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Important*

Groovy must be installed and configured as stated in the Groovy
documentation. For more information, see
http://groovy.codehaus.org/Installing+Groovy[] at the Groovy website.
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Important*

Maven must be correctly configured for all of the project wizards before
the cache script is run. Red Hat JBoss Enterprise Application Platform
and Red Hat JBoss Web Framework Kit Maven repositories must be specified
in `settings.xml`.
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

To create the cache, click Window→Preferences. Expand JBoss
Tools→Project Examples and select Offline Support. To run the cache
generating script, click Copy to Clipboard and paste the selected text
on a command line outside the IDE. The script will download and build
all of the project examples in a new directory `offline`. The script may
take some time to complete.

Once the cache is generated, copy `offline/.jbosstools/cache` to the
directory where you want to keep the project examples. Copy the contents
of `offline/.m2/repository` to your local maven repository.

To inform the IDE to use the cache for the project example wizards,
click Window→Preferences. Expand JBoss Tools→Project Examples and select
Offline Support. Select the Enable offline mode for project examples
check box. Ensure the correct cache location is specified in the Offline
directory field. Click Apply and click OK to close the Preferences
window.

== Install Software when Working Offline

You can install the JBoss and third-party plug-ins listed in JBoss
Central in offline mode using the JBoss Central `.zip` file, as detailed
below. This feature is useful if you are installing these auxiliary
plug-ins in a number of JBoss Developer Studio installations as it
removes the need to repeatedly download the same plug-ins.

Note that the `.zip` file is a snapshot of the plug-ins at the time of
the given JBoss Developer Studio release and updated versions of the
plug-ins must be installed from JBoss Central in online mode.

__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Note*

To install JBoss and third-party plug-ins in offline mode, you must
first download the JBoss Central `.zip` file. You can download the JBoss
Central `.zip` file from
http://download.jboss.org/jbosstools/targetplatforms/jbtcentraltarget/[]
on the JBoss Tools website.
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Click Help→Install New Software.

In the Work with field, enter the path of the JBoss Central `.zip` file.
Alternatively, click Add and click Archive to locate the file.

From the table of components, select the software to be installed and
click Next.

Review the details of the items listed for install and click Next.

After reading and agreeing to the license(s), click I accept the terms
of the license agreement(s) and click Finish. The Installing Software
window opens and reports the progress of the installation.

During the installation process you may receive warnings about
installing unsigned content. If this is the case, review the details of
the content and if satisfied click OK to continue with the installation.

Once installing is complete, you are prompted to restart the IDE. Click
Yes to restart now and No if you need to save any unsaved changes to
open projects. Note that changes do not take effect until the IDE is
restarted.

== Set Cheat Sheet Behavior

You can specify the default action the IDE should take when finding
cheat sheets in projects that it is importing. The available options
include always or never showing cheat sheets or the IDE prompting for
which action to take for each import.

To customize the action, click Window→Preferences. Expand JBoss Tools
and select Project Examples. From the Show included cheat sheet(s) when
importing a project list, click one of the options. Click Apply and
click OK to close the window.

image:images/4269.png[ To customize the action, click
Window→Preferences. Expand JBoss Tools and select Project Examples. From
the Show included cheat sheet(s) when importing a project list, click
one of the options. Click Apply and click OK to close the window. ]
