= BrowserSim

= Overview of BrowserSim

== About BrowserSim

BrowserSim is a mobile web browser simulator. It enables you to view and
interact with web pages as they would appear on mobile devices.

BrowserSim consists of an external web browser window. This browser
window is different from standard browsers in that it can be transformed
to simulate browsers on a variety of mobile devices. The browser window
can also return touch events in response to interaction and be rotated
to demonstrate the changes that would occur to a web application as a
result of rotating a mobile device. Additionally, BrowserSim provides
access to tools for inspecting and editing the source of web pages.

== System Requirements for BrowserSim

The overall system requirements of JBoss Tools are applicable for
BrowserSim and can be viewed at
https://community.jboss.org/wiki/MatrixOfSupportedPlatformsRuntimesAndTechnologiesInJBossToolsJBDS[]
on the JBoss Tools website. But, as reiterated below, there are
additional system requirements and restrictions when using BrowserSim on
Microsoft Windows operating systems.

BrowserSim depends on WebKit and, consequently, requires Apple Safari to
be installed on Microsoft Windows operating systems. Only a 32-bit
version of Apple Safari is available for Microsoft Windows operating
systems. To work around this restriction for 64-bit Microsoft Windows
operating systems, you must set BrowserSim to use a 32-bit JVM when
running in 64-bit versions of Eclipse. Note that 32-bit JVM choice is
limited to Oracle 32-bit JRE 1.6, JDK 1.6, or JDK 1.7 on Microsoft
Windows operating systems because Oracle 32-bit JRE 1.7 is incompatible
with Apple Safari.

To set BrowserSim to use a 32-bit JVM, click Window→Preferences. Expand
JBoss Tools and select BrowserSim/CordovaSim. Under Select JRE to run
BrowserSim, click Select and from the list select a 32-bit JRE or Java
developer kit. Click Apply and click OK to close the Preferences window.

image:images/4322.png[ To set BrowserSim to use a 32-bit JVM, click
Window→Preferences. Expand JBoss Tools and select BrowserSim/CordovaSim.
]

= Features of BrowserSim

== Features Overview

The aim of this section is to guide you in using BrowserSim:

* View local and remote web applications in BrowserSim
* Change the appearance of simulated devices, by rotating them and
changing or removing their skins
* Check the look and functionality of web pages in different browsers,
such as the default browser or additional synchronized simulated devices
* Generate screen captures of simulated devices and their web pages
* View the page source of web pages with editors, Firebug Lite and
Weinre

== View a Web Application on BrowserSim

You can use BrowserSim to view web applications on local file systems or
deployed on runtime servers.

To view web applications in local file systems::
  In the Project Explorer view, select a `.html` file and click the Run
  BrowserSim icon image:images/4115.png[image]. Alternatively,
  right-click a `.html` file and click Open With→BrowserSim.
To view deployed web applications::
  In the Servers view, expand the server on which the application is
  deployed. Right-click the application and click Show In→BrowserSim.
  Alternatively, select the application and click the Run BrowserSim
  icon. If BrowserSim is the default IDE browser, you can also
  right-click the application and click Show In→Web Browser.
  +
  _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
  *Important*

  Ensure the server and application of the deployed resources are
  started before attempting to view the resources in BrowserSim. To
  start the server and the application, in the Servers view right-click
  each and click Start.
  _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

BrowserSim employs intelligent loading when selecting which web page to
open in the browser window. If a web page is already open in a standard
browser window, this is the web page that is loaded in BrowserSim.

image:images/4116.png[ Web Page Open on Simulated Device. ]

Runtime errors for simulated devices can be viewed in the Error Log
view. To open the Error Log view, click Window→Show View→Other. Expand
General and double-click Error Log.

== Manage Web Applications on BrowserSim

BrowserSim provides actions to assist with viewing web applications on
its simulated devices.

Open a web link::
  In the browser window, click the web link. The link opens in the
  simulated device browser window.
Show or hide the address bar::
  Click the notification bar, where the connectivity, time and battery
  are displayed, to show or hide the address bar.
Reload a web page::
  Click the Reload icon. The icon differs in appearance and location
  across the simulated devices.
Stop loading a web page::
  Click the Stop icon image:images/4101.png[image] at the end of the
  address bar.
Use simulated touch::
  Right-click the simulated device and click Enable Touch Events. This
  option changes the cursor to a circle when it is over the simulated
  device browser window and returns mouse events in the browser window
  as touch events.
Close BrowserSim::
  Right-click the simulated device and click Close. Open BrowserSim
  windows automatically close when the IDE closes.

== Change the Appearance of a Simulated Device

BrowserSim provides a number of ways to change the appearance of
simulated devices. Changes made to the appearance of simulated devices
are retained by BrowserSim and they are automatically applied when it
starts in future.

Rotate the view between portrait and landscape modes::
  Click any corner of the simulated device. Alternatively, right-click
  the simulated device and click Rotate Left or Rotate Right.
  +
  image:images/4104.png[ To rotate the view between portrait and
  landscape modes, click any corner of the simulated device. ]
Change the simulated device::
  Right-click the simulated device, click Skins and select from the
  listed devices.
  +
  image:images/4323.png[ Right-click the simulated device, click Skins
  and select from the listed devices. ]
Remove or use skins::
  To view a plain browser window without the mobile device skin,
  right-click the simulated device and click Use Skins. To reapply the
  skin, click Device→Use Skins.

== View a Web Page in Different Browsers and Simulated Devices

From within BrowserSim, web pages can be viewed in different browsers
and simulated devices.

View in the default browser of the system::
  Right-click the simulated device and click Open in default browser. An
  external browser window opens and displays the web page.
View simultaneously on synchronized simulated devices::
  Right-click the simulated device and click Open Synchronized Window.
  Select from the list of available skins for the additional simulated
  device. An additional simulated device opens and displays the same web
  page as that of the synchronized simulated device. Opening a web page
  in one synchronized simulated device results in the web page opening
  in all the synchronized simulated devices.
  +
  image:images/4100.png[ Right-click the simulated device and click Open
  Synchronized Window. Select from the list of available skins for the
  additional simulated device. An additional simulated device opens and
  displays the same web page as that of the synchronized simulated
  device. Opening a web page in one synchronized simulated device
  results in the web page opening in all the synchronized simulated
  devices. ]

== Generate a Screen Capture of a Simulated Device

BrowserSim provides the ability to generate screen captures of a
simulated device and the web pages it shows.

To generate a screen capture of a simulated device, right-click the
simulated device and click Screenshot. Select the output for the screen
capture from the list of options:

* Save to save as a `.png` file in the default location. The default
location is a customizable setting and if it is not set you are prompted
to select a location to which to save the file each time.
* Save As to save as a `.png` file in a location you specify.
* Copy to Clipboard to copy the graphic for immediate use.

== Activate LiveReload for BrowserSim

LiveReload for BrowserSim refreshes web pages open in simulated device
browser windows as the source is edited in the IDE. A LiveReload server
sends notifications as resources are changed in the IDE and BrowserSim
inserts the JavaScript code, which invokes the simulated device browser
window to refresh. The procedures below outline how to create a
LiveReload server and how to enable LiveReload in BrowserSim for
workspace and deployed resources.

Click the Servers view. If the Servers view is not visible, click
Window→Show View→Servers.

Depending on the number of existing servers, follow the appropriate
step:

If there are no existing servers, click Click this link to create a new
server.

If there are one or more existing servers, right-click an existing
server and click New→Server.

From the list of server types, expand Basic and select LiveReload
Server.

image:images/4079.png[ From the list of server types, expand Basic and
select LiveReload Server. ]

The Server's host name and Server name fields are automatically
populated. The `localhost` value in the Server's host name field
indicates that the server is to be run on the local system and the value
in the Server name field is the name by which the LiveReload server is
identified in the Servers view. You can edit these values as appropriate
by typing in the fields.

Click Finish to close the window. The LiveReload server is listed in the
Servers view.

image:images/4080.png[ The LiveReload server is listed in the Servers
view. ]

Ensure the LiveReload server is started. If it is not started, in the
Servers view right-click the LiveReload server and click Start.

Complete the appropriate step depending on the location of your
resources:

For workspace resources, in the Project Explorer view right-click the
resource file and click Open With→BrowserSim.

For deployed resources, in the Servers view right-click the application
and click Show In→BrowserSim.

image:images/4072.png[ For deployed resources, in the Servers view
right-click the application and click Show In→BrowserSim. ]

________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Important*

Ensure the server and application of the deployed resources are started
before attempting to view the resources in LiveReload-enabled
BrowserSim. To start the server and the application, in the Servers view
right-click each and click Start.
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Right-click the simulated device and ensure the Enable LiveReload check
box is selected.

image:images/4305.png[ Right-click the simulated device and ensure the
Enable LiveReload check box is selected. ]

_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Important*

The Enable LiveReload check box has no effect when the LiveReload server
is set to insert the JavaScript code and the web resource is viewed in
BrowserSim via the LiveReload server port URL. LiveReload is always
enabled in this case.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

== View the Source of a Web Page

The source of web pages displayed in simulated device browser windows
can be viewed with a variety of applications that can be initiated from
within BrowserSim.

Open the page source in an editor::
  Right-click the simulated device and click View Page Source. The file
  containing the page source opens in an IDE editor.
Inspect the page source with Firebug Lite::
  Right-click the simulated device and click Debug→Firebug Lite. The
  Firebug Lite application is displayed in an external window.
Inspect and edit the page source with Weinre::
  Right-click the simulated device and click Debug→Weinre. The Weinre
  Inspector is displayed in an external window. Weinre supports remote
  debugging, enabling you to debug an application running on a mobile
  device from your desktop browser.

= Customizing BrowserSim

== Customizing Overview

The aim of this section is to guide you in customizing BrowserSim:

* Make BrowserSim more prominent to use by making it the default
browser, by adding its icon to the global toolbar and creating a
shortcut key for launching it
* Extend the functionality of BrowserSim by adding or modify the
simulated devices it provides
* Customize the default settings of BrowserSim for large simulated
devices, for LiveReload, for screen captures and for Weinre

== Make BrowserSim the Default Browser

You can set BrowserSim to be the default browser used in actions such as
Show In→Web Browser and Run on Server.

To set BrowserSim as the default browser, click Window→Web
Browser→BrowserSim.

Alternatively, click Window→Preferences, expand General and select Web
Browser. Click User external web browser and from the External web
browsers list select the BrowserSim check box. Click Apply and click OK
to close the Preferences window.

== Add BrowserSim to the Global Toolbar

The BrowserSim icon is part of the BrowserSim toolbar and, by default,
this toolbar is included in the global toolbar of the JBoss perspective.
But the BrowserSim icon might not be visible in other perspectives
because the icons in the global toolbar change depending on the
perspective you are using. As detailed in the procedure below, you can
add the BrowserSim toolbar to other perspectives.

Ensure you are using the perspective in which you would like to add the
BrowserSim toolbar. To open the desired perspective, click Window→Open
Perspective→Other and double-click the perspective.

Click Window→Customize Perspective.

In the Command Groups Availability tab, select the BrowserSim check box.
This option makes the BrowserSim toolbar available for adding to the
current perspective.

In the Tool Bar Visibility tab, ensure the BrowserSim check box is
selected. This option adds the BrowserSim toolbar to the global toolbar
of the current perspective.

image:images/4117.png[ In the Tool Bar Visibility tab, ensure the
BrowserSim check box is selected as this makes the BrowserSim toolbar
visible ]

Click OK to close the window. The Run BrowserSim icon
image:images/4115.png[image] is now visible in the global toolbar of the
perspective.

== Set a Shortcut for the Run BrowserSim Action

If you use BrowserSim frequently but do not want to set it as the
default browser, you can set a shortcut for the Run BrowserSim action,
as described in the procedure below.

Click Window→Preferences, expand General and select Keys.

To find the Run BrowserSim action, in the type filter text field enter
`BrowserSim`.

From the table, select Run BrowserSim.

In the Binding field, type the key combination you want to use as a
shortcut. Check the Conflicts table to ensure the key binding you have
chosen does not conflict with existing shortcuts.

Once a unique key binding is selected, click Apply and click OK to close
the Preferences window.

image:images/4114.png[ Once a unique key binding is selected, click
Apply and click OK to close the Preferences window. ]

== Add or Modify Devices in BrowserSim

You may wish to preview a web application on a simulated mobile device
that is not predefined in BrowserSim. You can add more devices to
BrowserSim and modify the existing devices, as detailed below.

Right-click the simulated device and click Preferences.

In the Devices section of the Devices tab, click Add.

Complete the fields and options as detailed:

* In the Name field, type the name you want to give the device.
* In the Width and Height fields, type the dimensions of the device
window in pixels.
* In the Pixel Ratio field, type a value for the ratio of CSS pixels to
device pixels.
* In the User Agent field, type the User Agent string of your device.
Clearing the User Agent check box results in the default User Agent for
the BrowserSim browser being used.
+
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Note*

User Agent is a string denoting the device, operating system and browser
combination. This string may be used by websites to provide content
tailored for devices, operating systems and browsers. Information is
widely available on the Internet to assist you in identifying the User
Agent associated with a particular device.
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
* From the Skin list, select the skin to be used or select None.

image:images/4118.png[ In the Devices section of the Devices tab, click
Add. ]

Click OK to add the new device. It is listed in the Devices table.

Click OK to close the Preferences window.

To modify existing devices in BrowserSim, right-click the simulated
device and click Preferences. In the Devices table, select a device and
click Edit. Once you have finished editing the fields, click OK. Click
OK to close the Preferences window.

== Change the Default Behavior when a Device does not Fit the Display

When a device window is too large to fit the display of the system you
are prompted about which action the IDE is to taken. This default IDE
behavior can be modified, with alternative options of always truncate or
never truncate.

To change the default behavior, right-click the simulated device and
click Preferences. In the Truncate the device window when it does not
fit display section of the Devices tab, click Always truncate or Never
truncate to change the behavior as appropriate and click OK to close the
Preferences window.

image:images/4110.png[ To change the default behavior, right-click the
simulated device and click Preferences. In the Truncate the device
window when it does not fit display section of the Devices tab, click
Always truncate or Never truncate to change the behavior as appropriate
and click OK to close the Preferences window. ]

== Change the Default LiveReload Port

The LiveReload server uses a port to communicate resource changes to
BrowserSim. The default port can be changed.

To change the default LiveReload port, right-click the simulated device
and click Preferences. Click the Settings tab and view the LiveReload
options section. Note that if LiveReload is not already enabled for
BrowserSim you must select the Enable LiveReload check box. In the
LiveReload Port field type the port number you want to use. Click OK to
close the Preferences window.

image:images/4109.png[ To change the default LiveReload port,
right-click the simulated device and click Preferences. Click the
Settings tab. Note that if LiveReload is not already enabled for
BrowserSim you must select the Enable LiveReload check box in the
LiveReload options section. In the LiveReload Port field type the port
number you want to use. Click OK to close the Preferences window. ]

== Set the Location for Saved Screen Captures

The Save option for screen captures saves graphics files to a set
location when that location has been predefined.

To set the location, right-click the simulated device and click
Preferences. In the Screenshots section of the Settings tab, in the
Location field type the location where you want graphics files to be
saved or click Browse to navigate to the location. Click OK to close the
Preferences window.

image:images/4108.png[ To set the location, right-click the simulated
device and click Preferences. In the Screenshots section of the Settings
tab, in the Location field type the location where you want graphics
files to be saved or click Browse to navigate to the location. Click OK
to close the Preferences window. ]

== Change the Default Settings for Weinre

By default, the Weinre option for viewing the source of a web page uses
the Weiner server provided by PhoneGap. If you have a different Weiner
server available, the default Weinre settings can be changed.

To change the default settings for Weinre, right-click the simulated
device and click Preferences. In the Weinre section of the Settings tab,
in the Script URL field type the address of the `.js` file provided by
the Weinre server and in the Client URL field type the address of the
web page showing the Weinre Inspector interface. Click OK to close the
Preferences window.

image:images/4107.png[ To change the default settings for Weinre,
right-click the simulated device and click Preferences. In the Weinre
section of the Settings tab, in the Script URL field type the address of
the `.js` file provided by the Weinre server and in the Client URL field
type the address of the web page showing the Weinre Inspector interface.
Click OK to close the Preferences window. ]
