= JBoss Server Tools

= Overview of JBoss Server Tools

== About JBoss Server Tools

JBoss Server Tools is tooling for working with application servers in
the IDE. It extends and enhances the existing server functionality of
the IDE.

JBoss Server Tools consists of wizards, editors and actions that enable
you to define, configure and manage application servers.

For assisting in defining servers for IDE use, JBoss Server Tools
provides runtime detection. This feature locates installed application
servers and integrates them into the IDE ready for use. Additionally,
you can define remote servers for JBoss community application servers in
the enhanced New Server wizard, which integrates with the IDE Remote
System Explorer (RSE) tool.JBoss Server Tools also allows you to
download JBoss community application servers from within the IDE.

Extensions to the standard IDE New Server wizard and server editor allow
you to specify and customize more management and behavior settings for
servers. Settings include IDE interaction with servers such as
launching, communicating and publishing. The JBoss Server Editor
supports you in managing applications for the server as a whole and
individual modules.

JBoss Server Tools actions enable you to customize based on application
server type, such as default filesets added to new servers and classpath
filesets. You can also customize the default server used for IDE actions
such as 'Run on Server'.

= Features of JBoss Server Tools

== Features Overview

The aim of this section is to guide you in using JBoss Server Tools:

* Download JBoss community application servers from with the IDE
* Use runtime detection to locate installed application servers and
generate complete server definitions, making them ready for IDE use
* Define custom configured servers, both local and remote, by creating
additional runtime environments and server adapters
* Manage server configuration and specify IDE-server interaction with
the JBoss Server Editor, including settings such as launch options,
publishing frequency and communication ports

== Download a JBoss Community Application Server

Application servers must be installed on your system in order to deploy
applications to local and remote instances of them. Many application
servers must be downloaded from outside the IDE. But JBoss Server Tools
can assist you to download JBoss community application servers from
within the IDE, as detailed in the procedure below.

Click Window→Preferences, expand JBoss Tools and select JBoss Runtime
Detection.

image:images/4051.png[ Click Window→Preferences, expand JBoss Tools and
select JBoss Runtime Detection. ]

Click Download.

From the table, select an application server and click Next.

image:images/4052.png[ From the table, select an application server and
click Next. ]

After reading and agreeing to the terms of the license, click I accept
the terms of this license agreement and click Next.

In the Install folder field, type the path in which the downloaded
application server should be installed or click Browse to navigate to
the location.

image:images/4053.png[ In the Install folder field, type the path in
which the downloaded application server should be installed or click
Browse to navigate to the location. In the Download folder field, type
the path to which the application server should be downloaded or click
Browse to navigate to the location. To automatically remove the
downloaded archive after installing, select the Delete archive after
installing check box. ]

In the Download folder field, type the path to which the application
server should be downloaded or click Browse to navigate to the location.

To automatically remove the downloaded archive after installing, select
the Delete archive after installing check box.

Click Finish to commence downloading and installing. The IDE progress
bar and Download window show the progress of the download process. You
can click Run in Background to close the download window and continue
the download process.

Click OK to close the Preferences window.

Once downloading is complete, the application server archive is
extracted and several automated actions occur:

* The path of the application server is added to the runtime detection
Paths table.
* A default server runtime environment is generated for the application
server.
* A default server adapter is created for the server runtime
environment.

________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Note*

Alternatively, you can download and install JBoss community application
servers when adding server runtime environments within Preferences under
Server→Runtime Environments, with the wizard for creating new servers,
or with the Start from scratch and Start from a sample wizards in JBoss
Central.
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

== Define a Local Server with Runtime Detection

You must define a server in the IDE before you can use it. A complete
server definition is composed of two elements:

* A server runtime environment informs the IDE about available local
application servers. Each server runtime environment defines a specific
application server configuration in terms of the application server
itself, a configuration file and a Java developer kit. By varying the
configuration details, one application server can be associated with
several server runtime environments.
* A server adapter, or simply server, informs the IDE about management
settings for server runtime environments. Each server adapter completes
the definition for a specific server by detailing settings such as
access parameters, launch arguments, and publishing options. By varying
the configuration details, one server runtime environment can have
several server adapters associated with it.

JBoss Server Tools provides runtime detection that automatically
generates a complete default server definition for any installed
application servers found in a given local system search path, as
detailed in the procedure below. Complete server definitions are
automatically generated for JBoss community servers downloaded with
JBoss Server Tools.

Click Window→Preferences, expand JBoss Tools and select JBoss Runtime
Detection.

image:images/4035.png[ Click Window→Preferences, expand JBoss Tools and
select JBoss Runtime Detection. ]

Click Add.

Select a path from which recursive scanning for application servers
should commence. To detect a specific application server, select the
install directory for that application server. To detect multiple
application servers, select a directory higher up the directory tree.

Depending on the outcome of the scan, follow the appropriate step:

If no new application servers are found or you do not wish to create any
server runtime environments for them, click Cancel.

If new application servers are found, you can generate server runtime
environments for them. Select the check boxes of the application servers
for which you want to generate server runtime environments and click OK.

image:images/4033.png[ If new application servers are found, you can
generate server runtime environments for them. Select the check boxes of
the application servers for which you want to generate server runtime
environments and click OK. ]

In all cases, the path is added to the Paths table.

Click Apply and click OK to close the Preferences window.

Generated server runtime environments are listed in Preferences under
Server→Runtime Environments. A default server adapter is automatically
created for each generated server runtime environment to complete the
server definition. Server adapters are listed in the Servers tab.

image:images/4037.png[ A default server adapter is automatically created
for each generated server runtime environment to complete the server
definition. Server adapters are listed in the Servers tab. ]

____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Note*

Alternatively, you can manually define servers by using the IDE server
functions to create a server runtime environment and then to create a
server adapter.
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

== Create an Additional Server Runtime Environment

Runtime detection defines a local server for each application server it
discovers in given search paths on your system. But you may want to
create additional server runtime environments with different
configurations for an installed application server. The procedure below
details the process for creating new server runtime environments. For
older versions of application servers, you can also create a new runtime
server by cloning an existing one.

Click Window→Preferences, expand Server and select Runtime Environments.

image:images/4028.png[ Click Window→Preferences, expand Server and
select Runtime Environments. ]

Click Add.

From the Select the type of runtime environment list, select a JBoss
community application server.

To create a complete local server definition, select the Create a new
local server check box.

image:images/4025.png[ From the Select the type of runtime environment
list, select a JBoss community application server. To create a complete
local server definition, select the Create a new local server check box.
]

Click Next.

In the Name field, type a name by which to identify the server runtime
environment within the IDE.

In the Home Directory field, type the path of the installed application
server or click Browse to navigate to the location.Alternatively, to use
a JBoss community application server that is not already installed on
the system, click Download and install runtime and follow the
instructions.

From the JRE list, select the JRE to use with the application server.

In the Configuration file field, type the path of the application server
configuration file or click Browse to navigate to the location. Note
that the path of the application server configuration file is relative
to `Home Directory/standalone/configuration/`, where `Home Directory` is
specified in the Home Directory field.

image:images/4027.png[ In the Name field, type a name by which to
identify the server runtime environment within the IDE. In the Home
Directory field, type the path of the installed application server or
click Browse to navigate to the location. From the JRE list, select the
JRE to use with the application server. In the Configuration file field,
type the path of the application server configuration file or click
Browse to navigate to the location. Note that the path of the
application server configuration file is relative to
`Home Directory/standalone/configuration/`, where `Home Directory` is
specified in the Home Directory field. ]

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Note*

For older application servers, the Configuration file field is replaced
with the Directory field. In this field, type the path where the
application server configurations are installed and then select a listed
configuration. To clone from an existing server runtime environment,
after selecting a listed configuration click Copy. Complete the name for
the new configuration and the location where the configuration should be
stored and click OK.
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Click Next if the button is enabled, otherwise click Finish. The Next
button is only enabled if you selected the Create a new local server
check box earlier. On the presented page, complete the appropriate
information and click Finish.

image:images/4026.png[ Complete the appropriate information for the new
server adapter and click Finish. ]

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Note*

Alternatively, you can create server runtime environments with the
wizard for creating new servers in the Servers tab or with the Start
from scratch and Start from a sample wizards in the JBoss Central tab.
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

== Define an Additional Local Server

Runtime detection defines a local server for each application server it
discovers in given search paths on your system. But you may want to
create additional server adapters with different configurations to
define multiple servers. To create a new server adapter to define a
local server, you must use the new server wizard as detailed in the
procedure below.

Click the Servers tab. If the Servers tab is not visible, click
Window→Show View→Servers.

Depending on the number of existing servers, follow the appropriate
step:

If there are no existing servers, click Click this link to create a new
server.

If there are one or more existing servers, right-click an existing
server and click New→Server.

From the Select the server type list, select a JBoss community
application server.

The Server's host name and Server name fields are completed by default.
In the Server name field, type a name by which to identify the server
definition.

From the Server runtime environment list, select the specific server
runtime environment for the application server type to use.
Alternatively, to create a new runtime environment click Add and
complete the fields as appropriate.

image:images/4029.png[ From the Select the server type list, select a
JBoss community application server. The Server's host name and Server
name fields are completed by default. In the Server name field, type a
name by which to identify the server definition. From the Server runtime
environment list, select the specific server runtime environment for the
application server type to use. Alternatively, to create a new runtime
environment click Add and complete the fields as appropriate. ]

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Note*

If the Server runtime environment field is not shown, no server runtime
environments exist for the selected application server type. A server
runtime environment must be selected before you can successfully create
a server adapter and complete the server definition. To create a new
server runtime environment without canceling the wizard, click Next and
complete the fields as appropriate.
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Click Next.

The server behavior options displayed vary depending on the selected
application server type.

image:images/4030.png[ The server behavior options displayed vary
depending on the selected application server type. Complete the options
as appropriate. ]

Complete the options as appropriate:

* To specify that the server life cycle will be managed from outside the
IDE, select the Server is externally managed check box.
* To specify that the server should be launched to respond to requests
on all hostnames, select the Listen on all interfaces to allow remote
web connections check box. This option adds the `-b 0.0.0.0` argument to
the server launch command.
* To enable management commands sent by the IDE to be successfully
received by the server, select the Expose your management port as the
server's hostname check box. This option is useful for remote servers
but bypassed for local servers.
+
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Note*

To make use of this facility, a management user must exist for the
remote server and you must provide the management user credentials to
the IDE.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

From the location list, select Local.

Click Next.

To select applications to deploy with this server, from the Available
list select the applications and click Add. Applications to be deployed
are detailed in the Configured list.

image:images/4031.png[ To select applications to deploy with this
server, from the Available list select the applications and click Add.
Applications to be deployed are detailed in the Configured list. ]

Click Finish to create the server. The server is listed in the Servers
tab, with the information in brackets detailing the server status.

________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Important*

You can create multiple servers that use the same application server.
But a warning is displayed if you try to simultaneously run more than
one server on the same host. This is because multiple running servers on
the same host can result in port conflicts.
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

== Define a Remote Server

You can define remote servers for JBoss community application servers.
To complete a server definition, you must create a server adapter, or
server, that informs the IDE how to communicate and manage the remote
server, as detailed in the procedure below.

__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Important*

A complete server definition requires a server runtime environment and a
server adapter. Ideally the server runtime environment would be created
by specifying the remote application server and remote Java developer
kit but server runtime environments can only be created using local
components. To work around this issue, you must have a version of the
remote application server and remote Java developer kit installed
locally and create a server runtime environment based on these.
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Click the Servers tab. If the Servers tab is not visible, click
Window→Show View→Servers.

Depending on the number of existing servers, follow the appropriate
step:

If there are no existing servers, click Click this link to create a new
server.

If there are one or more existing servers, right-click an existing
server and click New→Server.

From the Select the server type list, select a JBoss community
application server.

The Server's host name and Server name fields are completed by default.
In the Server name field, type a name by which to identify the server
definition.

From the Server runtime environment list, select the specific server
runtime environment for the application server type to use.
Alternatively, to create a new runtime environment click Add and
complete the fields as appropriate.

image:images/4029.png[ From the Select the server type list, select a
JBoss community application server. The Server's host name and Server
name fields are completed by default. In the Server name field, type a
name by which to identify the server definition. From the Server runtime
environment list, select the specific server runtime environment for the
application server type to use. Alternatively, to create a new runtime
environment click Add and complete the fields as appropriate. ]

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Note*

If the Server runtime environment field is not shown, no server runtime
environments exist for the selected application server type. A server
runtime environment must be selected before you can successfully create
a server adapter and complete the server definition. To create a new
server runtime environment without canceling the wizard, click Next and
complete the fields as appropriate.
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Click Next.

The server behavior options displayed vary depending on the selected
application server type. Complete the options as appropriate:

* To specify that the server life cycle will be managed from outside the
IDE, select the Server is externally managed check box.
* To specify that the server should be launched to respond to requests
on all hostnames, select the Listen on all interfaces to allow remote
web connections check box. This option adds the `-b 0.0.0.0` argument to
the server launch command.
* To enable management commands sent by the IDE to be successfully
received by the server, select the Expose your management port as the
server's hostname check box. This option is useful for remote servers.
+
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Note*

To make use of this facility, a management user must exist for the
remote server and you must provide the management user credentials to
the IDE.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

From the location list, select Remote System Deployment.

image:images/4032.png[ From the location list, select Remote System
Deployment. ]

From the Host list, select the host. Alternatively, to specify a new
host, click New Host and follow the instructions.

In the Remote Server Home field, type the path of the application server
or click Browse to navigate to the location.

In the Remote Server Configuration File field, type the path of the
configuration file or click Browse to navigate to the location.

Click Next.

To select applications to deploy with this server, from the Available
list select the applications and click Add. Applications to be deployed
are detailed in the Configured list.

image:images/4031.png[ To select applications to deploy with this
server, from the Available list select the applications and click Add.
Applications to be deployed are detailed in the Configured list. ]

Click Finish to create the server. The server is listed in the Servers
tab, with the information in brackets detailing the server status.

== Manage Server Settings

JBoss Server Tools provides the JBoss Server Editor for managing the
settings of servers. This editor has two modes: Overview and Deployment.
As described below, each mode enables you to configure fundamental
server settings.

The Overview mode details the settings for the server. Within this mode
you can provide management information, specify application publishing
and reload behavior, and customize port settings.

image:images/4036.png[ The Overview mode details the settings for the
server. Within this mode you can provide management information, specify
application publishing and reload behavior, and customize port settings.
]

The Deployment mode lists applications deployed to the server. Within
this mode you can specify the general publishing behavior for
applications and provide deployment settings for individual
applications.

image:images/4056.png[ The Deployment mode lists applications deployed
to the server. Within this mode you can specify the general publishing
behavior for applications and provide deployment settings for individual
applications. ]

To open the JBoss Server Editor for a specific server, in the Servers
tab double-click the server. All changes to the settings of a server
must be saved before the results will take effect. To save, press
Ctrl+S. You may be required to enter the server management password when
making changes to certain settings.

=== Manage Server Settings in Overview Mode

The Overview mode of the JBoss Server Editor enables you to vary the
management and behavior settings of an individual server. Each section
of the Overview mode is outlined below. All changes to server settings
must be saved before the results will take effect. To save, press
Ctrl+S.

General information::
  This section details essential information comprising the server
  definition: the name by which the server is identified in the IDE, the
  hostname of the server and the server runtime environment.
  +
  image:images/4047.png[ This section details essential information
  comprising the server definition: the name by which the server is
  identified in the IDE, the hostname of the server and the server
  runtime environment. ]
  +
  To change the server runtime environment, from the Runtime Environment
  list select a server runtime environment. Alternatively, to create and
  assign a new server runtime environment click Runtime Environment and
  follow the instructions.
  +
  To view or edit the server launch configuration, click Open launch
  configuration.
Management login credentials::
  This section holds credentials, specifically username and password,
  necessary for the IDE to successfully communicate management commands
  with the server. The password is obscured and stored in Eclipse Secure
  Storage for security. Incorrect management credentials can cause the
  IDE to not detect when a server is started.
  +
  image:images/4048.png[ This section holds credentials, specifically
  username and password, necessary for the IDE to successfully
  communicate management commands with the server. The password is
  obscured and stored in Eclipse Secure Storage for security. Incorrect
  management credentials can cause the IDE to not detect when a server
  is started. ]
Server behavior::
  This section enables you to customize server behavior that encompasses
  how the IDE communicates with the server.
  +
  image:images/4050.png[ This section enables you to customize server
  behavior that encompasses how the IDE communicates with the server. ]
  +
  To specify that the server life cycle will be managed from outside the
  IDE, select the Server is externally managed check box.
  +
  To specify that the server should be launched to respond to requests
  on all hostnames, select the Listen on all interfaces to allow remote
  web connections check box. This option is most useful for remote
  servers and adds the `-b 0.0.0.0` argument to the server launch
  command.
  +
  To enable management commands sent by the IDE to be successfully
  received by the server, select the Expose your management port as the
  server's hostname check box. This option is useful for remote servers
  and unnecessary for local servers.
  +
  ______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
  *Warning*

  The Expose your management port as the server's hostname feature
  should be used carefully for servers on production as it leaves the
  server open for anyone to access.
  ______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
  +
  To specify the location of the server, from the list select Local or
  Remote System Deployment. For remote systems, there are further
  details that must be specified: the host, the path of the remote
  application server, and the remote application server configuration
  file.
  +
  image:images/4049.png[ For remote systems, there are further details
  that must be specified: the host, the path of the remote application
  server, and the remote application server configuration file. ]
Publishing::
  This section details the publishing action the IDE should take in
  response to modifications to local resources of deployed applications.
  Publishing involves replacing changed project resources in the
  dedicated deployment location of a server and the IDE action options
  are Never publish automatically, Automatically publish when resources
  change, and Automatically publish after a build event. Additionally,
  you can specify a minimum time interval that must occur between
  consecutive automated publish actions by the IDE to control the
  frequency of publishing.
  +
  image:images/4045.png[ This section details the publishing action the
  IDE should take in response to modifications to local resources of
  deployed applications. Publishing involves replacing changed project
  resources in the dedicated deployment location of a server and the IDE
  action options are Never publish automatically, Automatically publish
  when resources change, and Automatically publish after a build event.
  Additionally, you can specify a minimum time interval that must occur
  between consecutive automated publish actions by the IDE to control
  the frequency of publishing. ]
Timeouts::
  This section specifies the maximum length of time, in seconds, the IDE
  should wait for server actions to complete before aborting. The server
  actions are specifically starting and stopping.
  +
  image:images/4041.png[ This section specifies the maximum length of
  time, in seconds, the IDE should wait for server actions to complete
  before aborting. The server actions are specifically starting and
  stopping. ]
Deployment scanner::
  This section enables you to customize the behavior of deployment
  scanners, which detect the applications deployed to a server. You can
  manage deployment scanners or allow the IDE to do it for you. The
  management options available are Add missing deployment scanners after
  server startup and Remove added deployment scanners before shutdown.
  +
  image:images/4043.png[ This section enables you to customize the
  behavior of deployment scanners, which detect the applications
  deployed to a server. You can manage deployment scanners or allow the
  IDE to do it for you. The management options available are Add missing
  deployment scanners after server startup and Remove added deployment
  scanners before shutdown. ]
Application reload behavior::
  This section details the application reload action the IDE should take
  in response to changed published resources of deployed applications.
  Application reload involves undeploying and redeploying an application
  and this action is necessary when you make changes to project
  resources that will not be detected by the server. By default, the
  application reload behavior is set to invoke application redeployment
  when `.jar` files are changed.
  +
  image:images/4044.png[ This section details the application reload
  action the IDE should take in response to changed published resources
  of deployed applications. Application reload involves undeploying and
  redeploying an application and this action is necessary when you make
  changes to project resources that will not be detected by the server.
  By default, the application reload behavior is set to invoke
  application redeployment when `.jar` files are changed. ]
  +
  To customize which changes invoke application redeployment, select the
  Customize application reload behavior on changes to project resources
  check box. In the Force module restart on following regex pattern
  field, type a regex pattern indicating the changed resources that you
  want to trigger redeployment.
  +
  To disable application reload, select the Customize application reload
  behavior on changes to project resources check box and ensure the
  Force module restart on following regex pattern field is empty.
Server state detectors::
  This section specifies which method the IDE should use to verify the
  started and stopped status of the server.
  +
  image:images/4042.png[ This section specifies which method the IDE
  should use to verify the started and stopped status of the server. ]
  +
  There are four methods from which to choose:
  +
  * Web Port, which pings the web port on the host to see if the server
  responds
  * Timeout, which waits for a specified time duration and then declares
  the start or stop operation a success without any actual verification
  * Process Terminated (available for Shutdown Poller of local servers
  only), which checks if a server process is still alive and sets the
  server status to stopped when it is terminated
  * JMX, which polls JMX, the JBoss Management service
Server ports::
  This section details the ports and port offset that the IDE should use
  for communication with the server.
  +
  image:images/4046.png[ This section details the ports and port offset
  that the IDE should use for communication with the server. ]
  +
  Port offset is typically offered by newer application servers and it
  enables multiple servers to run on the same system without port
  conflicts. JBoss Server Tools uses information in the server
  configuration file, typically XPath values, to automatically detect
  the correct ports and port offset for communicating with the server
  but you can perform further customization.
  +
  To view the configuration file information used by JBoss Server Tools
  for automatic port detection, click Configure corresponding to the
  appropriate tool. The information used is displayed in the Current
  Value field. To change this value, click Edit XPath. Click OK to close
  the window.
  +
  image:images/4023.png[ To view the configuration file information used
  by JBoss Server Tools for automatic port detection, click Configure
  corresponding to the appropriate tool. The information used is
  displayed in the Current Value field. To change this value, click Edit
  XPath. Click OK to close the window. ]
  +
  To manually specify the server ports or port offset, clear the Detect
  from Local Runtime check box corresponding to the appropriate tool and
  edit the value.

=== Manage Server Settings in Deployment Mode

The Deployment mode of the JBoss Server Editor enables you to vary the
deployment settings of an individual server. Each section of the
Deployment mode is outlined below. All changes to server settings must
be saved before the results will take effect. To save, press Ctrl+S.

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Important*

Changing deployment settings when modules are already deployed can
adversely result in multiple deployed copies of an application. For this
reason, many of the functions of the Deployment mode are only enabled
when a server is fully synchronized and it has no modules deployed.
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Default settings for the server::
  This section specifies where deployments are kept and how they are
  packaged.
  +
  image:images/4055.png[ This section specifies where deployments are
  kept and how they are packaged. ]
  +
  You can customize the deployment location and packaging type:
  +
  * To select the workspace deployment folder for the server, click Use
  workspace metadata.
  * To select the deployment folder of the application server, click Use
  the JBoss deploy folder.
  * To select a folder of your choice, click Use a custom deploy folder.
  With this option, you should complete the Deploy directories and
  Temporary Deploy Directory fields. The temporary folder must be on the
  same file system as the final deploy location otherwise publishing
  often fails.
  * For all modules to be archived for deployment, select the Deploy
  projects as compressed archives check box. This avoids exploded
  deployments and reduces the amount of memory deployments occupy but
  may result in slower deployments.
Settings per module::
  This section shows deployment settings for all modules in the
  workspace regardless of whether they are deployed on the server under
  consideration.
  +
  image:images/4054.png[ This section shows deployment settings for all
  modules in the workspace regardless of whether they are deployed on
  the server under consideration. ]
  +
  To filter the module list in the case that you have lots of modules,
  from the Filter by list select the criteria for the filter. If you
  select By Module Name, in the text field enter the part or whole name
  of the module.
  +
  To change the Deployment Location and Temporary Deploy Directory on a
  per module basis, in the table click the value to be changed and enter
  an alternative value. Ensure the values for these variables are
  specified use absolute paths or paths relative to the default deploy
  directory.

= Customizing JBoss Server Tools

== Customizing Overview

The aim of this section is to guide you in customizing JBoss Server
Tools:

* Enable runtime detection to search paths for application servers on
IDE start
* Select a default server for IDE actions
* Specify default filesets that are listed in the Servers tab for ease
of access
* Customize classpath entries for your projects based on application
server type

== Enable Runtime Detection on IDE Start

You can customize runtime detection to automatically search paths for
installed application servers when the IDE starts. If any application
servers are found, you are prompted about creating corresponding
complete server definitions.

To enable automated searching on IDE start, click Window→Preferences.
Expand JBoss Tools and select JBoss Runtime Detection. In the Paths
table, select the Every start check box for all of the paths that you
want to be automatically searched on IDE start. Click Apply and click OK
to close the window.

image:images/4034.png[ To enable automated searching on IDE start, click
Window→Preferences. Expand JBoss Tools and select JBoss Runtime
Detection. In the Paths table, select the Every start check box for all
of the paths that you want to be automatically searched on IDE start.
Click Apply and click OK to close the window. ]

== Set a Default Server

JBoss Server Tools enables you to select a default server on which to
carry out actions such as Run on server. This is useful when you have
multiple server instances but use one predominately.

To set a default server, in the global toolbar of the JBoss perspective
click the Select a default server icon image:images/4057.png[image].
From the list of servers, click the server that you want to set as the
default.

image:images/4024.png[ To set a default server, in the global toolbar of
the JBoss perspective click the Select a default server icon. From the
list of servers, click the server that you want to set as the default. ]

== Default Filesets

Filesets are collections of files that are listed under the server in
the Servers tab for ease of access. You can open listed files for
viewing and modifying in IDE editors by double-clicking them. JBoss
Server Tools generates a default fileset for new JBoss community
application servers that includes the server configuration file. But
JBoss Server Tools also provides the ability for you to customize
default filesets for individual servers and an application server type.

To customize the fileset for an individual server, in the Servers tab
expand the server. Right-click Filesets and click Create File Filter. In
the Name field, type a name for the filter. In the Root Directory field,
type the path of the directory in which the filter should be applied or
click Browse to navigate to the location. In the Includes and Excludes
fields, type the regex patterns for filtering. Click OK to create the
filter. The new filter is listed under the server in the Servers tab and
expanding it shows all of the files matching the filter.

image:images/4040.png[ To customize the fileset for an individual
server, in the Servers tab expand the server. Right-click Filesets and
click Create File Filter. ]

image:images/4039.png[ In the Name field, type a name for the filter. In
the Root Directory field, type the path of the directory in which the
filter should be applied or click Browse to navigate to the location. In
the Includes and Excludes fields, type the regex patterns for filtering.
Click OK to create the filter. ]

To customize the default fileset for an application server type, click
Window→Preferences. Expand Server and select Default Filesets. From the
list, select a JBoss community application server type. Click Add or
click Remove to customize the default filesets. Click Apply and click OK
to close the window.

image:images/4038.png[ To customize the default fileset for an
application server type, click Window→Preferences. Expand Server and
select Default Filesets. From the list, select a JBoss community
application server type. Click Add or click Remove to customize the
default filesets. Click Apply and click OK to close the window. ]

== Default Classpath Entries

Classpath entries specify the availability of `.jar` files for your
projects. JBoss Server Tools generates a default classpath fileset for
new JBoss community application servers based on the `.jar` files that
accompanying each. But JBoss Server Tools also provides the ability for
you to customize classpaths for individual servers and an application
server type.

To customize the classpath fileset for an application server type, click
Window→Preferences. Expand Server→Runtime Environments and select
Default Classpath Entries. From the Select classpath filesets for this
runtime type list, select a JBoss community application server type.
Click Add or click Remove to customize the classpath filesets. Click
Apply and click OK to close the window.

image:images/4058.png[ To customize the classpath fileset for an
application server type, click Window→Preferences. Expand Server→Runtime
Environments and select Default Classpath Entries. From the Select
classpath filesets for this runtime type list, select a JBoss community
application server type. Click Add or click Remove to customize the
classpath filesets. Click Apply and click OK to close the window. ]
