= Mobile Web Tools

= Overview of Mobile Web Tools

== About Mobile Web Tools

Mobile Web Tools provides tooling for developing mobile web applications
within the IDE. It simplifies the process of getting started with HTML5
and jQuery Mobile technologies that are used for these types of
applications and provides efficient workflows for developing with them
on a daily basis.

Mobile Web Tools consists of project wizards, file templates, the jQuery
Mobile palette, and actions for developing with HTML5 and jQuery Mobile:

* The HTML5 project wizards and HTML5 jQuery Mobile file template enable
you to quickly generate the foundations of mobile web applications and
to view mobile web application programming in action.
* The jQuery Mobile palette offers a visual reference of the available
HTML5 and jQuery Mobile user interface widgets, which can be
effortlessly inserted into your project files with drag-and-drop
functionality. In conjunction with the jQuery Mobile palette, widget
wizards allow you to easily customize HTML5 and jQuery Mobile widgets
when inserting them into your project.
* Code assistance and one-click action for viewing jQuery Mobile pages
in browsers enable you to work more efficiently when developing mobile
web applications in the IDE.

= Features of Mobile Web Tools

== Features Overview

The aim of this section is to guide you in using Mobile Web Tools:

* Generate the foundations of web applications with the project wizards
and file templates
* Access the jQuery Mobile palette and add customized widgets to your
mobile web application with the aid of the widget wizards
* Use code completion to assist in programming
* View pages of the application in various browsers

== Create a Mobile Web Project

Project wizards are available to assist you in generating new mobile web
applications. The project wizards are listed in the JBoss Central tab:

* HTML5 Project, under Start from scratch
* kitchensink-html5-mobile, under Start from a sample

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Important*

In order to deploy the applications created by these wizards, JBoss
Application Server 7.1 must be defined for use in the IDE. You can
define a server using runtime detection from within a project wizard.
From the Requirements table on the first page of the project wizard,
select server/runtime and click Install or Download and Install and
follow the instructions. Alternatively, before starting a wizard click
Window→Preferences, expand JBoss Tools and select JBoss Runtime
Detection. Click Add and follow the instructions.
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

In the JBoss Central tab under Start from scratch, click HTML5 Project.

image:images/4083.png[ In the JBoss Central tab under Start from
scratch, click HTML5 Project. ]

From the Target Runtime list, select an existing JBoss Application
Server 7.1 server runtime environment or select <none>. When <none> is
selected, a non-enterprise server runtime environment is assumed.

Click Next.

In the Project name field, type a name for the project.

image:images/4090.png[ In the Project name field, type a name for the
project. In the Package field, type a package name for the project
resources. ]

In the Package field, type a package name for the project resources.

To create the project in a different location to the Workspace default,
clear the Use default Workspace location and type the path in the field
or click Browse to navigate to the location.

Click Next.

Check the Maven details for the project to be created and click Finish.

During project creation, the wizard imports project dependencies. When
the HTML5 Project wizard displays 'HTML5 Project' Project is now ready,
click Finish to close the wizard. A `README.md` file for the project
automatically opens for viewing.

In the JBoss Central tab under Start from a sample, hover the mouse over
Mobile Applications and click kitchensink-html5-mobile.

image:images/4084.png[ In the JBoss Central tab under Start from a
sample, hover the mouse over Mobile Applications and click
kitchensink-html5-mobile. ]

Click Next.

To create the project in a different location to the Workspace default,
clear the Use default Workspace location and type the path in the field
or click Browse to navigate to the location.

image:images/4095.png[ To create the project in a different location to
the Workspace default, clear the Use default Workspace location and type
the path in the field or click Browse to navigate to the location. ]

Click Finish.

During project creation, the wizard imports project dependencies. When
the kitchensink-html5-mobile wizard displays 'kitchensink-html5-mobile'
Project is now ready, click Finish to close the wizard. A `README.md`
file for the project automatically opens for viewing.

== Use a HTML5 jQuery Mobile File Template

Mobile Web Tools provides a HTML5 jQuery Mobile file template to assist
in creating mobile web applications. The template inserts the necessary
JavaScript and CSS library references into the HTML header and includes
skeleton jQuery Mobile page and listview widgets in the HTML body. The
procedure below details how to insert the template into your project.

In the Project Explorer tab, right-click a project and click New→HTML
File.

In the Enter or select the parent folder field, type a project path or
expand the project folder tree and select the parent folder for the new
file.

image:images/4093.png[ In the Enter or select the parent folder field,
type a project path or expand the project folder tree and select the
parent folder for the new file. In the File name field, type the name
for the new file. It is not essential to include the file extension in
the name as this is automatically appended if it is found to be missing.
]

In the File name field, type the name for the new file. It is not
essential to include the file extension in the name as this is
automatically appended if it is found to be missing.

Click Next.

Ensure the Use HTML Template check box is selected.

image:images/4097.png[ Ensure the Use HTML Template check box is
selected. From the Templates table, select HTML5 jQuery Mobile Page. ]

From the Templates table, select HTML5 jQuery Mobile Page.

Click Finish. The new HTML5 file is listed in the Project Explorer tab
and automatically opened in the JBoss Tools HTML Editor.

== Access the jQuery Mobile Palette

Mobile Web Tools offers a jQuery Mobile palette, with wizards for adding
jQuery Mobile and HTML5 widgets to your project. It is available for use
with HTML5 files in the JBoss Tools HTML Editor. The jQuery Mobile
palette is available in the Palette tab, which is part of the JBoss
perspective.

image:images/4086.png[ The jQuery Mobile palette is available in the
Palette tab, which is part of the JBoss perspective. ]

The jQuery Mobile palette is automatically displayed in the Palette tab
when a HTML5 file is opened in the JBoss Tools HTML Editor. To open a
file in this editor, in the Project Explorer tab right-click a HTML5
file and click Open With→JBoss Tools HTML Editor. Alternatively, if
JBoss Tools HTML Editor is the default option for Open With,
double-click the HTML5 file to open it in the editor. The file opens in
the editor and the Mobile Web palette is displayed in the Palette tab.

____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Note*

The Palette tab must be visible in order to see the jQuery Mobile
palette. To open the tab, click Window→Show View→Other, expand General
and select Palette.
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

To show or hide an individual palette in the Palette tab, click the name
of the individual palette.

To search for a palette element within the jQuery Mobile palette, in the
search field type a search term or phrase. The elements displayed in the
jQuery Mobile palette are filtered as you type in the search field.

== Insert a jQuery Mobile Palette Widget into a HTML5 File

The jQuery Mobile palette contains wizards for the HTML5 and jQuery
Mobile user interface widgets commonly used in mobile web applications.
The widgets are grouped in the palette by functionality, with tooltips
providing widget descriptions.

To insert a palette widget into a file open in the JBoss Tools HTML
Editor, drag the widget icon to the appropriate place in the file.
Alternatively, ensure the text cursor is located at the desired
insertion point in the file and click the widget icon. For widgets with
no attributes that can be customized, such as JS/CSS and Field
Container, the code snippets are immediately inserted into the file. For
widgets with attributes that can be customized, a widget wizard opens
allowing you to input attribute information. Once complete, click Finish
and the code snippet is inserted into the file.

image:images/4092.png[ For widgets with attributes that can be
customized, a widget wizard opens allowing you to input attribute
information. Once complete, click Finish and the code snippet is
inserted into the file. ]

The widget wizards have three common aspects:

Design fields::
  These fields are unique to each widget. They allow you to customize
  the attributes of the widget by providing names, actions, numbers of
  elements, and styling themes. All widget wizards assign automatically
  generated values to the ID attribute in the case that you do not
  specify a value. Content assist is available for the URL (href) field
  by placing the text cursor in the field and pressing Ctrl+Space.
Add references to JS/CSS::
  This check box provides the ability to automatically add any missing
  library references to the HTML5 file that are required by the widget.
Preview Panes::
  These panes show previews of the code snippet for the widget and of
  the rendered widget. The preview panes can be shown and hidden by
  clicking the Show Preview and Hide Preview button, respectively.

== Get Assistance with jQuery Mobile Programming

Mobile Web Tools offers code assist to help you when working with jQuery
Mobile. Code assist lists available options for attributes and attribute
values. Code assist is available for use in files and in the URL (href)
field of widget wizards.

To view code assist in a file, ensure the text cursor is located at the
desired insertion point in the file and press Ctrl+Space. Repeatedly
press Ctrl+Space to cycle through HTML and JSF EL completion options. To
view more information about a listed item, select the item. To insert a
listed item into the code, double-click the item.

image:images/4099.png[ To view code assist in a file, ensure the text
cursor is located at the desired insertion point in the file and press
Ctrl+Space. Repeatedly press Ctrl+Space to cycle through HTML and JSF EL
completion options. To view more information about a listed item, select
the item. To insert a listed item into the code, double-click the item.
]

To view code assist in a widget wizard, ensure the text cursor is
located in the URL (href) field and press Ctrl+Space. To view more
information about a listed item, select the item. To insert a listed
item into the code, double-click the item.

image:images/4098.png[ To view code assist in a widget wizard, ensure
the text cursor is located in the URL (href) field and press Ctrl+Space.
To view more information about a listed item, select the item. To insert
a listed item into the code, double-click the item. ]

== View jQuery Mobile Pages in a Browser

Mobile Web Tools provides an action to easily and quickly open jQuery
Mobile pages in web browsers for viewing.

To open a jQuery Mobile page from a file open in the JBoss Tools HTML
Editor, press Ctrl and move the mouse over the `<div>` tag corresponding
to the page widget. Continue to press Ctrl and from the menu select one
of the options:

* Open With Browser, which shows the page in the default browser of the
IDE
* Open With BrowserSim, which shows the page in BrowserSim

image:images/4087.png[ To open a jQuery Mobile page from a file open in
the JBoss Tools HTML Editor, press Ctrl and move the mouse over the
`<div>` tag corresponding to the page widget. Continue to press Ctrl and
from the menu select one of the options. ]

= Customizing Mobile Web Tools

== Customizing Overview

The aim of this section is to guide you in customizing Mobile Web Tools:

* Customize the HTML5 jQuery Mobile templates available in the IDE

== Customize jQuery Mobile File Templates

The HTML5 jQuery Mobile Page template for new HTML files is provided by
Mobile Tools. You can customize this template and add more jQuery Mobile
templates to the IDE.

To customize the jQuery Mobile templates available in the IDE, click
Window→Preferences. Expand Web→HTML Files→Editor and select Templates.

image:images/4085.png[ To customize the jQuery Mobile templates
available in the IDE, click Window→Preferences. Expand Web→HTML
Files→Editor and select Templates. ]

There are a number of available actions:

Add a template::
  There are several options for adding templates:
  +
  * To create a new template, click New. In the Name and Description
  fields, type a name and description of the template, respectively. In
  the Pattern field, type the code for the template. From the Context
  list, select the instance in which the IDE should make the template
  available. Click OK to close the window.
  * To restore all templates that have been deleted, click Restore.
  * To load an existing template into the IDE, click Import and select
  the file. The file must be an XML file, with appropriate file headers
  and the HTML5 and jQuery Mobile content written in XML syntax and
  contained between XML `template` and `templates` tags.
Edit a template::
  From the table, select a template and click Edit. You can modify the
  name, description, code content and context in which the IDE makes the
  template available. Click OK to close the window.
Remove a template::
  From the table, select a template and click Remove.

